(funky hip-hop music)
All right we'll do the slider one.
This one's a little bit easier because there
are no adding and removing of events.
Well there are lots of adding,
but there's no removing of events that
need to happen here,
so it's a little bit easier
there's no binding and things like that.
So let's open up slider
and we'll open up
our index.js.
And let's take a copy of that and call it
index-prototype.
Gonna go into my index.html, go to where I sourced it,
and say index-prototype.js.
And we will run npm start to get this sucker going.
Open it up
make sure this stuff still works
beautiful.
All right so let's start.
First, we have our sliders at the bottom
let's grab both of these sliders and console log them,
just the same idea that we did before.
Console.log mySlider and dogSlider.
Refresh and we get undefined undefined
these objects here are from line eighteen
you can get rid of those if it's confusing
you as to what they are.
Here we go undefined undefined.
Okay good.
Now let's do the same thing we did last time
and let's just add a new key word inside of that.
And what that will do is it will create
a new incense of the slider for each of
those variables that I have.
And now you'll see we have our slider
and they each have their prototypes
and there's nothing in them.
Okay making sense making sense so far.
So let's just go top to bottom.
This is fine
for saying what we have there.
These "lets" need to be changed to
this.
But let's actually use the same method we did before.
Rename this one
to this.
And this one
is renamed to this.
And of course you cannot
have variable declarations on properties
so
actually we don't even need those at all!
I just renamed them and maybe that practice
is still helpful to rename it,
because you see it
It renamed it down here,
it renamed it right here
renamed it right here
It renamed it all throughout the app
but there's no sense in making these variables
when their properties,
because properties can be added at any time
I was only declaring those variables so
that we had a closure where those variables
were available.
So we'll go ahead and delete those.
Now theses ones also need to be this.ed
So lets go and rename
those.
And
this prevButton
is only
accessible inside
of the constructor
when we addEventListener.
So they are not needed anywhere inside
of the prototype method,
so it's not necessary to put it on this.
So these two can stay as variables
this one can be this.slides
So lets move all of these methods out.
We'll grab startSlider and we'll go all
the way down
to right here.
And we leave these kickstarters
as well as these button event listeners
so remove that.
And I'll go below it
paste them in
and I'm gonna grab move
applyClasses
startSlider
and
is that it?
Yeah.
So it's just three this time.
We'll change it to this.
No not this.
It's slider.prototype
.startSlider is equal to function.
Okay then we need to do a little bit of
red squiggle clean up here.
So startSlider is now gonna be this.startSlider
and this.applyClasses
is moves are going to now be this.move.
Slider, if you want to reference the current slider
it's this.slider.
Remember we stuck it on this right here.
And it'll be
this.applyClasses.
Let's go to our browser now and refresh
and see what errors we're getting.
So it probably won't work
now it doesn't work.
And we get cannot read property "querySelector"
of undefined
it gives us this nice little stack trace meaning
it happened at line sixty-three.
So line sixty-three
that's not helpful at all.
That's the end of my file.
Then we'll go a little bit deeper
sixty-three, sixty-three
there we go forty-one.
Line forty-one is where the call happened.
That's not helpful either.
Okay what if we click on that.
Problem with console log?
Sometimes you get these errors like
I don't know if it's transpilation or something,
but that's not giving
that's not giving me a very good
pointer to where it's going.
So let's just kinda figure this out ourselves.
querySelector of undefined,
so where are we using querySelector?
There we go.
Slider slider slider
those should be fine,
cause we're passing in the slider.
Where else are we using querySelector?
This.slider.querySelector...
Okay.
So I have an inkling that it might be
this one?
Let's try.
Console.log slider.
No that's our slider it should be fine.
So where else are we using querySelector?
Right here.
So this startSlider function is not
able to access this slider.
So what I'll say is I'll console.log this
or let's throw a debugger in there.
There we go.
And let's see
what we've got
We've got a call stack, startSlider.
Our local this is equal to the slider.
So this.slides
this.slide
We have our global
Okay so I don't see slider on.
Oh okay.
So for some reason I don't see the rest
of my properties at this point in time
this is why debuggers is helpful,
because you're able to pause it at that point in time.
So whenever this startSlider is running,
this.slider doesn't exist yet.
So let's look
and
oh we didn't save reference to the slider ever.
(laughs)
So that's a problem.
So let's say this.slider is equal to slider,
because the slider that gets pasted in,
needs to be saved on the instance,
because we need to querySelector it in the future.
All right refresh that.
Console
Okay our next problem.
Cannot read property "classlist" of
undefined on line thirty-eight.
All right we've we got going on
on line thirty-eight?
This.prev.classList.remove
so it's trying to tell me this.prev is undefined.
So lets console.log this.
And so when I hit next
this is equal to our button.
And our prev actually works.
But our next doesn't work.
Okay
so
we'll go to where we have listened to our move.
Let's go back up to our constructor
and we're saying that the next is broken,
but the previous is not.
And that's because
here we've just past reference to the function,
and it's being rebound.
And in this case we're actually passing
it in an annonymous function,
which is an arrow.
So this can be solved one of two ways,
it can bind it with this,
and that will work.
And the reason why we're allowed to do that here
is because we're not removing the EventListener,
so we don't actually need reference to
the new this.move that we bound.
The other thing we could do
and this is what is pretty popular in react world
is to do a little arrow function
like that.
You actually have to call the function yourself,
otherwise it doesn't work.
There we go that works just fine.
And then of course the other way we did it
is we just said this.move is equal to
this.move.bind
this.
And that works as well.
Let me double check that actually does work
this.move
That works just fine as well.
I'm going to keep it the same
so lets use a arrow function in this case.
Again what that does is it
this arrow function will have bound and not the this.move,
which is what we want.
Why?
Because
this.move needs access to the instance
in order to reference the previous, the next,
and the current dom elements.
So that's working
and I believe
that is it.
Working good!
So that is our slider.
Last thing I wanna just say is like these right here
the prev button and the next button?
Why didn't we say this.prevButton?
It's because we don't need them anywhere
outside of this constructor.
So if that's the case,
keep them as regular variables,
and just reference them when you need
them inside this function.
The one kind of cool thing about this is
if I take my
dogSlider
and
I cannot
access it as dogSlider when we're using parcel.
So if we wanna be able to access it,
we have to say something like
window.dogSlider is equal to dogSlider.
Or you can right click store as global variable.
But now we see our dogSlider,
and the cool thing about that is
you can now hook up
the move
function yourself.
And it will just run via the command line for you.
So what I could do is I could just
like totally right here
just say window.addEventListener
keyup
and when that runs event
we can say if the e.key
is equal to
ArrowRight
then
would just say dogSlider.move.
And then we could have another one for the backer
lets make sure that works,
and watch now my
my keys should work.
Yeah look at that!
I'm hitting my right key and it's moving.
And that's the beauty,
because you the developer could build this thing,
and you can surface the functionality via methods.
And you can let other developers on your team
people are using your plugin to be able to
hook into the functionality of your slider
by adding their own
custom EventListeners on it.
In this case I'm just doing dogSlider,
right?
And this one doesn't work at all,
but you could write some more logic
that would do them all.
Let's duplicate it
arrow
left
I wanna just say move
back.
So lets see my arrow keys.
Boom boom!
Boom boom boom!
Amazing!
So I'll leave that in there just to
show you how to do that,
and I'll catch you in the next one.